Feat/sui gmp demo (#1377)
axelarnetwork/axelar-docs: src/content/docs/dev/general-message-passing/sui/gmp-tutorial.mdx

import { Callout } from "../../../../../components/callout";

# How to Send Cross-Chain Messages from Sui to EVM

This guide walks you through creating a simple yet powerful application that sends messages between Sui and [Ethereum-compatible](https://ethereum.org/en/developers/docs/evm/) blockchains.

> In this beginner-friendly tutorial, you'll learn how General Message Passing (GMP) lets your applications communicate across different blockchains, opening up exciting possibilities for your Web3 projects.

Reviewer: Add hyperlink to GMP

What You'll Build

A cross-chain messaging application that:
- Sends messages from Sui to any EVM chain
- Receives messages from EVM chains back to Sui
- Demonstrates the core concepts of blockchain interoperability

## Prerequisites

Before starting, you'll need these tools installed:
- [Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install) - Programming language
- [Sui CLI](https://docs.sui.io/build/install) - Command line interface
- [Sui Move](https://docs.sui.io/build/move) - Smart contract language
- [Sui JS](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@mysten/sui) - JavaScript SDK

## Setup

We'll use Sui's TypeScript SDK to build and deploy our `move` contract, with `npm` managing our dependencies. Let's get started with setting up your Sui development environment:

```bash
sui move new sui-gmp
```

This will create a new directory called `sui-gmp` with the following structure:

1. `Move.toml`    
1. `sources`      
1. `tests`

You can the run `npm init -y` to add a `package.json` file to the project.

> ### Move Config

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Author: why was this removed? The `move.toml` is a significant part worth addressing imo

The main configuration for a Sui project is in the `move.toml` file. This file contains the following sections:
- `[package]`: This section contains the package name, version, and authors.
- `[dependencies]`: This section contains the dependencies for the package.
- `[addresses]`: The live addresses of the dependencies for your project.
- `[dev-dependencies]`: The dev-dependencies section allows overriding dependencies for `--test`.
- `[dev-addresses]`: The dev-addresses section allows overwriting named addresses for the `--test`.

> For now you can clear the boiler plate config and simply add the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For now you can clear the boiler plate configuration and simply add the following:
```

```toml
[package]
name = "gmp_example"
version = "0.1.0"
edition = "2024"
```

> ## GMP Package

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Implement a GMP Contract in Sui Move
```

The GMP Package (akin to a smart contract in the EVM ecosystem) will hold the core logic for the cross-chain application. It will be built using the `move` programming language. You can start it off by creating a new `gmp_example.move` file in the `sources` folder adding the name for the module in the code.

```move
module gmp_example::gmp;
```

Note: The name `gmp_example` must match the name provided in the `move.toml` file that holds the 

> ### Dependencies 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Set up Project Dependencies 
```

Author: same for here its clear ### dependencies if for setting up dependencies no?

Reviewer: @benjamin852 Quick feedback on the headings - I think we could make them more descriptive for better SEO and readability. 

Right now "Deploy" doesn't give much context to readers or search engines about what we're actually deploying. Something like "Deploy Your Smart Contract" or "Deploy to Production" would be clearer and help with discoverability.

Descriptive subheadings are pretty crucial for both SEO bots and user experience since they give people a quick overview of what each section covers. 

These resources explain it well if you want to check them out: [SEO guide](https://www.searchenginejournal.com/on-page-seo/header-tags/) and [video explanation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5z5Z3uTE2uQ).

Happy to discuss further!

```toml
[dependencies]
AxelarGateway = { git = "https://github.com/axelarnetwork/axelar-cgp-sui.git", rev = "b35227a82f7ca6f941a7e729e1a3b3d48a64b982", subdir = "move/axelar_gateway" }
GasService = { git = "https://github.com/axelarnetwork/axelar-cgp-sui.git", rev = "b35227a82f7ca6f941a7e729e1a3b3d48a64b982", subdir = "move/gas_service" }
RelayerDiscovery = { git = "https://github.com/axelarnetwork/axelar-cgp-sui.git", rev = "b35227a82f7ca6f941a7e729e1a3b3d48a64b982", subdir = "move/relayer_discovery" }
Utils = { git = "https://github.com/axelarnetwork/axelar-cgp-sui.git", rev = "b35227a82f7ca6f941a7e729e1a3b3d48a64b982", subdir = "move/utils" }
VersionControl = { git = "https://github.com/axelarnetwork/axelar-cgp-sui.git", rev = "b35227a82f7ca6f941a7e729e1a3b3d48a64b982", subdir = "move/version_control" }

<Callout emoji="💡">
  Note: This is a temporary workaround for adding dependencies, this will be updated for a more permanent solution.
</Callout>
```

> ### Imports

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Required Module Imports
```

```rust
use axelar_gateway::channel::{Self, Channel, ApprovedMessage};
use axelar_gateway::gateway::{Self, Gateway};
```
From the [Axelar Gas Service](/dev/general-message-passing/sui/gmp-example/#sui-gas-service) you will use the Gas Service object.

```rust
use gas_service::gas_service::GasService;
```

From the [Relayer Discovery](https://github.com/axelarnetwork/axelar-cgp-sui/tree/main/move/relayer_discovery) you will use the Relayer Discovery object and Discovery mechanic

```rust
use relayer_discovery::discovery::RelayerDiscovery;
use relayer_discovery::transaction;
```

From standard `move` library helpers you can use the following

```rust
use std::ascii::{Self, String};
use std::type_name;
```

Lastly, from the Sui SDK you can use

```rust
use sui::address;
use sui::event;
use sui::hex;
use sui::coin::Coin;
use sui::sui::SUI;
```

> ### `Singleton`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Creating the Singleton Resource
```

> The singleton is a resource type that lives in its own on-chain [object](https://docs.sui.io/concepts/object-model). In the case of this package this object owns the package's [channel](src/content/docs/dev/general-message-passing/sui/gmp-contracts#channel). The `id` of the singleton gives it a unique on-chain object identity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `singleton` is a resource type that lives in its own on-chain [object](https://docs.sui.io/concepts/object-model). In the case of this package this object owns the package's [channel](src/content/docs/dev/general-message-passing/sui/gmp-contracts#channel). The `id` of the singleton gives it a unique on-chain object identity.
```

> The singleton is a resource type that lives in its own on-chain [object](https://docs.sui.io/concepts/object-model). In the case of this package this object owns the package's [channel](src/content/docs/dev/general-message-passing/sui/gmp-contracts#channel). The `id` of the singleton gives it a unique on-chain object identity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The singleton is a resource that lives in its own on-chain [object](https://docs.sui.io/concepts/object-model). In the case of this package, this object owns the package's [channel](src/content/docs/dev/general-message-passing/sui/gmp-contracts#channel). The singleton's `id` gives it a unique on-chain object identity.
```

You can create your package's singleton as follows: 

> ```rust

Reviewer: I thought this was Move, not Rust?

Author: ya but `move` won't have the syntax highlights (its not a recognized language yet) so rust is the next best thing imo we do need the highlights

Reviewer: Make sense

public struct Singleton has key {
    id: object::UID,
    channel: Channel,
}
```

Where the `id` is the unique identifier for the on-chain object and the `channel` is imported from the [Gateway dependency](https://github.com/axelarnetwork/axelar-cgp-sui/tree/main/move/axelar_gateway).

> ### `Init`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Initializing GMP Package
```

Author: Going to keep it as `init` so its consistent with fn name in contract.

With your singleton now setup, you can create your `initialize` function that will be used to [initialize](https://move-book.com/programmability/module-initializer.html) the GMP package. This function will take a single parameter:

> 1. `ctx: &mut TxContext`: A mutable reference to [TxContext](https://docs.sui.io/references/framework/sui/tx_context#sui_tx_context_TxContext)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`ctx: &mut TxContext`: A mutable reference to [TxContext](https://docs.sui.io/references/framework/sui/tx_context#sui_tx_context_TxContext).
```

In the `init` function you can then setup a new `object` id, create your unique `channel` and associate the two together via the [transfer::share_object](https://docs.sui.io/references/framework/sui/transfer#sui_transfer_share_object) function to publish a `singleton` resource. 

> ```rust

Reviewer: Same here

Author: ?

fun init(ctx: &mut TxContext) {
    // Create a new object id for the singleton
    let singletonId = object::new(ctx);
    // Create a new channel
    let channel = channel::new(ctx);
    // Publish the singleton
    transfer::share_object(Singleton {
        id: singletonId,
        channel,
    });
}
```

> ### `Send_Message`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Send GMP Message
```

```rust
gas_service.pay_gas(
    &message_ticket,
    coin,
    refund_address,
    params,
);
```

Lastly, you can trigger the Gateway's `send_message()` function to trigger the cross-chain message by passing in the `message_ticket` you created earlier. 

```rust
gateway.send_message(message_ticket);
```

The complete `send_message()` function should look like this:

```rust
public fun send_message(
    singleton: &Singleton,
    gateway: &Gateway,
    gas_service: &mut GasService,
    destination_chain: String,
    destination_address: String,
    payload: vector<u8>,
    refund_address: address,
    coin: Coin<SUI>,
    params: vector<u8>,
) {
    // Create a new message ticket
    let message_ticket = gateway::prepare_message(
        &singleton.channel,
        destination_chain,
        destination_address,
        payload,
    );

    // Pay for the gas
    gas_service.pay_gas(
        &message_ticket,
        coin,
        refund_address,
        params,
    );

    // Dispatch the cross-chain message
    gateway.send_message(message_ticket);
}
```

### Receive Message

> With the package now able to send cross-chain messages, it would be great to also receive messages from other blockchains. This can be done by creating an `execute()` function that will be triggered by our Axelar's relaying infrastructure for any incoming message. The full function signature for the `execute()` function will require two parameters:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the package now able to send cross-chain messages, it would be great also to receive messages from other blockchains. This can be done by creating an `execute()` function triggered by Axelar's relaying infrastructure for any incoming message. The full function signature for the `execute()` function will require two parameters:
```

1. `call: ApprovedMessage`: The [approved message](/dev/general-message-passing/sui/gmp-contracts/#approvedmessage) that was sent from the source chain
1. `singleton: &mut Singleton`: A mutable reference to the `singleton` resource so the package can consume messages from its `channel` 

```rust
public fun execute(
    call: ApprovedMessage, 
    singleton: &mut Singleton
) {}
```

> Within the `execute()` function you can then consume the message by triggering the [consume_approved_message()](/dev/general-message-passing/sui/gmp-contracts/#consume-approved-message) function that is [defined](https://github.com/axelarnetwork/axelar-cgp-sui/blob/main/move/axelar_gateway/sources/channel.move#L85) in the `Channel` module. Once the message is approved you can `emit` a custom event indicating that the execution has gone through successfully. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Within the `execute()` function, you can then consume the message by triggering the [consume_approved_message()](/dev/general-message-passing/sui/gmp-contracts/#consume-approved-message) function that is [defined](https://github.com/axelarnetwork/axelar-cgp-sui/blob/main/move/axelar_gateway/sources/channel.move#L85) in the `Channel` module. Once the message is approved, you can `emit` a custom event indicating that the execution has gone through successfully. 
```

Your complete `execute()` function should look like this:

```rust
public fun execute(
    call: ApprovedMessage, 
    singleton: &mut Singleton
) {
    // Consume the message
    let (_, _, _, payload) = singleton.channel.consume_approved_message(call);

    // Emit Executed event
    event::emit(Executed { data: payload });
}
```

> This will lead to an error however as you have not yet defined your event, you can do so up top as follows. Note unlike the `Singleton` struct that had a `key` allowing it to be its own on-chain object, the `Executed` struct has a `copy` + `drop` [abilities](https://docs.sui.io/references/sui-api/sui-graphql/reference/types/enums/move-ability) so the event data can be duplicated into the transaction’s event log and then discarded by off-chain indexers. The event itself simply takes a raw payload of bytes that it will be receiving in the cross-chain call.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will lead to an error, however, as you have not yet defined your event, you can do so up top as follows. Note unlike the `Singleton` struct that had a `key` allowing it to be its own on-chain object, the `Executed` struct has a `copy` + `drop` [abilities](https://docs.sui.io/references/sui-api/sui-graphql/reference/types/enums/move-ability) so the event data can be duplicated into the transaction’s event log and then discarded by off-chain indexers. The event takes a raw payload of bytes that it will receive in the cross-chain call.
```

The output of this will be your new `transaction` that you can pass into the Relayer Discover's [register_transaction()](https://github.com/axelarnetwork/axelar-cgp-sui/blob/main/move/relayer_discovery/sources/discovery.move#L93) function along with a reference to your package's `channel` as follows: 

```rust
discovery.register_transaction(&singleton.channel, transaction);
```

Once this is called your package will be registered with the Relayer Discovery so it can begin receiving cross-chain messages.

Lastly you can define your `concat()` helper function to append the arguments used in the `register_transaction()` function.

```rust
fun concat<T: copy>(v1: vector<T>, v2: vector<T>): vector<T> {
    let mut result = v1;
    result.append(v2);
    result
}
```

> #### Why is this needed?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Why is this needed?
```

> In the EVM ecosystem because you inherited from AxelarExecutable, the relayer already knows your contract’s function signature and where to call it. This is because on EVM chains contracts also hold their own storage. On Sui chains package logic is separate from objects that are holding the relevant state. As a result the destination that is sent from the source chain will be the `channel_id` as opposed to the `package_id`. In other words  The package ID just tells you which code to run; the channel ID tells you where to run it and which messages to pull in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the EVM ecosystem, because you inherited from `AxelarExecutable`, the relayer already knows your contract’s function signature and where to call it. This is because contracts also hold their storage on EVM chains. On Sui chains, the package logic is separate from objects that hold the relevant state. As a result, the destination sent from the source chain will be the `channel_id` instead of the `package_id`. In other words, the package ID tells you which code to run; the channel ID tells you where to run it and which messages to pull in.
```

> ## Deploy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Deploy Your GMP Package to Sui Testnet
```

At this point your `move` GMP Package is now complete. What remains is to deploy the contract to the Sui testnet and send/receive the cross-chain messages. 

> To deploy the contract you can make use of [Sui's Typescript SDK](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@mysten/sui)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To deploy the contract you can make use of [Sui's Typescript SDK](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@mysten/sui).
```

> ### Setup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Set up the TypeScript Deployment Environment
```

To get setup in the root of your project you can run `npm init -y` to generate a `package.json` file. Next, you can install the following dependencies

- [dotenv](https://www.npmjs.com/package/dotenv)
- [mysten/sui](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@mysten/sui)
- [commander](https://www.npmjs.com/package/commander)
- [axelar-cgp-sui](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@axelar-network/axelar-cgp-sui)

This can be done by running `npm i dotenv @mysten/sui commander @axelar-network/axelar-cgp-sui`.

Open a new `scripts` directory and add a `deploy.js`.

You can then begin writing your deploy script by setting up your new command

```js
import { Command } from 'commander';

const program = new Command();
program
  .description('Build and publish a Sui Move package with GMP support')
  .action(async (opts) => {
    try {
      await run(opts);
    } catch (err) {
      console.error('❌ Error:', err.message || err);
      process.exit(1);
    }
  });

program.parse(process.argv);
```

Then define an empty `run()` function up above that will be triggered you when run the script

```js
async function run() {}
```

> ### Build

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Compile and Build the Move Package
```

You can begin by importing the `execSync` helper up top that will be used to run cli commands from your script.

```js
import { execSync } from 'child_process';
```

Then in the `run()` function you can use `exectSync()` to run the relevant Sui cli command to build the contract.

```js
const buildOutput = execSync(
    `sui move build --dump-bytecode-as-base64`,
    { encoding: 'utf-8' }
);
```

This will return a `buildOutput`, which is the compiled `Move` bytecode serialized as `Base64` strings, packed into a `JSON` object.

You can then obtain the `modules` and `dependencies` from the compiled `buildOutput`.

```js
const { modules, dependencies } = JSON.parse(buildOutput);
```

At this point you should be able to run `node scripts/deploy.js` and build your function. The logs should appears as follows

```bash
INCLUDING DEPENDENCY GasService
INCLUDING DEPENDENCY RelayerDiscovery
INCLUDING DEPENDENCY AxelarGateway
INCLUDING DEPENDENCY Utils
INCLUDING DEPENDENCY VersionControl
INCLUDING DEPENDENCY Sui
INCLUDING DEPENDENCY MoveStdlib
BUILDING gmp_example
```

> ### Access Wallet

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Configure Wallet Access for Deployment
```

You can create a new `utils/index.js` file where you can define a new function called `getWallet()`

This function will require several imports up top

```js
import { ethers } from 'ethers';
import { Ed25519Keypair } from '@mysten/sui/keypairs/ed25519';
import { SuiClient } from '@mysten/sui/client';
import 'dotenv/config';
```

In the `getWallet()` function will create a new [Ed25519Keypair](https://sdk.mystenlabs.com/typedoc/classes/_mysten_sui.keypairs_ed25519.Ed25519Keypair.html) and `client` object that can be returned to be used later. The keypair will be created based on your private key that should be saved in your `.env` file.

```js
export function getWallet() {
  const client = new SuiClient({ url: 'https://fullnode.testnet.sui.io:443' });

  const rawKey = process.env.PRIVATE_KEY;
  if (!rawKey) {
    console.error('PRIVATE_KEY not set in your .env');
    process.exit(1);
  }

  const keypair = Ed25519Keypair.fromSecretKey(rawKey);
  return [keypair, client];
}
```

Now back in your main `deploy.js` script in your `run()` function you can call `getWallet()` as follows

```js
  const [keypair, client] = getWallet()
```

> ### Publish

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Publish the Package on-chain
```

To publish the package on chain you will need to sign a transaction from your Sui Wallet that deploys the package. 

First import the `Transaction` from the Sui SDK 
```js
import { Transaction } from '@mysten/sui/transactions';
```

Then back in your `run()` function you can execute the transaction publishing your package.

```js
//create new tx
const tx = new Transaction();
//publish the package
const [upgradeCap] = tx.publish({ modules, dependencies });
```

The `modules` and `dependencies` being passed are the same ones that were destructured from the build output above.

> The `upgradeCap` that is returned is an on-chain resource that the Sui mints for you whenever you publish a package, the address that holds the `cap` is able to upgrade the package at a future point. Further reading on this can be found [here](https://sdk.mystenlabs.com/typescript/transaction-building/basics#transactions). To ensure you are the one with the ability to upgrade the package that you deploy you can pass the `cap` to your own address. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `upgradeCap` returned is an on-chain resource that the Sui mints for you whenever you publish a package; the address that holds the `cap` can upgrade the package at a future point. Further reading on this can be found [here](https://sdk.mystenlabs.com/typescript/transaction-building/basics#transactions). To ensure you are the one with the ability to upgrade the package that you deploy, you can pass the `cap` to your own address. 
```

```js
export const getObjectIdsByObjectTypes = (txn, objectTypes) =>
  objectTypes.map((objectType) => {
    const objectId = txn.objectChanges.find((change) =>
      change.objectType?.includes(objectType)
    )?.objectId;

    if (!objectId) {
      throw new Error(`No object found for type: ${objectType}`);
    }
    return objectId;
})
```

Great! At this point when you run `node scripts/deploy.js` you should see the following logs.

```bash
node scripts/deploy.js
📦 Building Move package
INCLUDING DEPENDENCY GasService
INCLUDING DEPENDENCY RelayerDiscovery
INCLUDING DEPENDENCY AxelarGateway
INCLUDING DEPENDENCY Utils
INCLUDING DEPENDENCY VersionControl
INCLUDING DEPENDENCY Sui
INCLUDING DEPENDENCY MoveStdlib
BUILDING gmp_example
🚀 Sending publish transaction…
✅ Publish succeeded!
📦 Published package ID: 0x9068ae5fb08615d7fd9f869d6d1cf47ec21fa687ca7ab3d7d68b45a7b2cfd041
🔑 GMP Singleton Object ID: 0x9cbb3582c80ed49ca5d0cacce23b2cdb145bd10421f2c969d36799e3cbd78c52
```

> ## Interact With Contract

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Interact with the Contract
```

The final (and most exciting) thing that needs to be done is to actually interact with the package now that it's live on-chain. In your `scripts` directory, next to your `deploy.js` script you can create a new script called `gmp.js`.

### Setup

This script will also user the `commander` tool to execute

> #### Command Setup

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> #### Command Setup

Reviewer: We don't support h4 tag

Similarly to the `deploy` script, you can begin by setting up a new `Command`. This command however will require significantly more parameters than the deployment did, so as to specify the params for the `send_message()` function in your `move` package.

This will prompt you to pass in 
1. The `destination chain`
1. The `destination address` on the destination chain
1. The `id` of the singleton object (that should be logged in your deployment script)
1. The `fee` you are paying to the [axelar gas service](/dev/general-message-passing/sui/gmp-contracts/#sui-gas-service) when sending the cross-chain transaction.
1. The `payload` for the gmp message being sent
1. The `refundAddress` to receive any surplus funds sent to the gas service 
1. The `packageId` of your live package on the Sui blockchain

```js

> const program = new Command()

Reviewer: Where should they add this? How did we get here, sorry?I  just realised we didn't clone any project or start a project from scratch. Am i missing something?

Author: in deploy.js

        ),
    ],
})
```

Everything that is passed in here now has been either explicitly defined in the steps before or passed in as an argument when calling the script. The only item that is not is the very last item in the argument that goes into the `params` field in the `send_call()` function. This can simply be an empty `bcs` encoded `0x0` value.

With the `tx` call now constructed you can trigger the `signAndExecuteTransaction()` on the Sui client to broadcast the transaction to the network.

```js
const receipt = await client.signAndExecuteTransaction({
    signer: keypair,
    transaction: tx,
    options: {
        showEffects: true,
        showObjectChanges: true,
        showEvents: true,
    },
})

console.log('✅ Tx', receipt.digest)
```

### Receive Message

At this point your `gmp.js` script is now complete, there is no extra functionality that needs to be run to `execute()` each incoming message as it is submitted into Sui by the Axelar relayer. The only thing you will need to do is make sure to trigger the `register_transaction()` function that you have previously written ou on your package. We will return to this once the package is deployed.

## Testing

> ### Deploy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Deploy Your Package to the Testnet
```

Author: I think just `deploy` is enough, it looks a bit cleaner when scrolling and on the navbar on the side.

Let's now deploy your package to the Sui testnet using your `deploy.js` script. 

Run `node scripts/deploy.js` 

This returns

```bash
❯ node scripts/deploy.js
📦 Building Move package
INCLUDING DEPENDENCY GasService
INCLUDING DEPENDENCY RelayerDiscovery
INCLUDING DEPENDENCY AxelarGateway
INCLUDING DEPENDENCY Utils
INCLUDING DEPENDENCY VersionControl
INCLUDING DEPENDENCY Sui
INCLUDING DEPENDENCY MoveStdlib
BUILDING gmp_example
🚀 Sending publish transaction…
✅ Publish succeeded!
📦 Published package ID: 0xb05b08f9edcde940dddb5da350b3cd1f4015785db0777079d0954e4bb9e04c3a
🔑 GMP Singleton Object ID: 0x4ecf424aafacc8bf1589ab557dd96aec51e4ed3d7a6bc5fb4f3acbdca54cd388
```

> ### Interact

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Interact with the contract
```

Now that you have a live package you can begin to interact with it. For this test you can send a message from your new Sui package to an EVM contract on a given EVM chain. We will use this address `0x93294Ed80495194d069FB10636D16638139b0EbA` on the [Avalanche blockchain](https://testnet.snowtrace.io/address/0x93294Ed80495194d069FB10636D16638139b0EbA). The deployed contract corresponds to this [Solidity GMP contract](https://github.com/axelarnetwork/axelar-examples/tree/main/examples/evm/call-contract), it will simply receive an event on Avalanche, emit and `Executed` event and store the message in a storage variable. 

> #### Sui --> Avalanche

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Sui --> Avalanche
```

Author: Should be #### four of these since its under the ### interact section

To send the message using your `gmp.js` you can call the script as follows. 

```bash
node scripts/gmp.js sendCall \
  --destChain avalanche \
  --destAddress 0x93294Ed80495194d069FB10636D16638139b0EbA \
  --singletonId 0x4ecf424aafacc8bf1589ab557dd96aec51e4ed3d7a6bc5fb4f3acbdca54cd388 \
  --fee 0.01 \
  --payload "hello from sui" \
  --refundAddress <YOUR_WALLET_ADDRESS> \
  --packageId 0xb05b08f9edcde940dddb5da350b3cd1f4015785db0777079d0954e4bb9e04c3a
```

This will log out the transaction hash

```bash
✅ Tx 5xNRuT4wbFSCfgtN2ZVUHPntE5SRA5JATPWSqVKYdY2R
```

You can then search for your transaction on the [Axelarscan Explorer](https://testnet.axelarscan.io/gmp/5xNRuT4wbFSCfgtN2ZVUHPntE5SRA5JATPWSqVKYdY2R-1)

Now, on the live contract on avalanche you should see the `Executed` event [being emitted](https://testnet.snowtrace.io/tx/0xf8a467a732dc58ff6f904b6cb5e2e601dac3ff5de8024c5f4ec559a8fcd10f85?chainid=43113) and when you query the `message` storage variable it should return `hello from sui`.

> #### Avalanche --> Sui

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Avalanche --> Sui
```

Author: same here

With the Sui -> Avalanche transaction now working let's confirm that you can also receive message on you Sui contract from Avalanche. On the Avalanche side you can either interact with the contract through the explorer/cli/ or remix. We will use [Remix](https://remix.ethereum.org/?#gist=3ce3a199d93fb7b7f36e52082cca8bd5&lang=en&optimize=false&runs=200&evmVersion=null&version=soljson-v0.8.30+commit.73712a01.js) for simplicity.

In your Solidity contract to send the message from Avalanche to Sui you can trigger the `setRemoteValue()` function in your contract and pass in 

1. `destinationChain`: `"sui"`
1. `destinationAddress`: `<TBD>`
1. `message`: `"hello from avalanche"`

The reason the `destinationAddress is "tbd" is because you need to first register your gmp package back on Sui with the `RelayerDiscovery`. You can writeup a script to do this but to showcase different ways of interacting with Sui, you can also do this via the [Sui Cli](https://docs.sui.io/references/cli).

> #### Register With Relayer Discover

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Register With Relayer Discover
```

Author: thats fine does not need to be picked up in navbar as long as its bolded
